you can't say it but you know it's true
good evening everybody it is an honor to
be here at my last and perhaps the last
White House correspondent
you all look great the end of the
Republic has never looked better
I do apologize I know I was a little
late tonight I was running on CPT
[Applause]
which stands for jokes that white people
should not make
[Applause]
it's a tip for you Jeff anyway here we
are my eighth and final appearance of
this unique event and I am excited if
this material works well I'm gonna use
it at Goldman Sachs next year
[Applause]
earn me some serious Tubman's
that's right that's right
[Applause]
my brilliant and beautiful wife Michelle
is here tonight she looks so happy to be
here
that's called practice it's like
learning to do three-minute planks
she makes it look easy now but next year
at this time someone else will be
standing here in this very spot and it's
anyone's guess who she will be but
but standing here I can't help but be
reflective a little sentimental now
eight years ago I said it was time to
change the tone of our politics in
hindsight I clearly should have been
more specific
eight years ago I was a young man full
of idealism and vigor look at me now I'm
gray grizzled just counting down the
days till my death panel
[Applause]
hillarie once questioned whether i'd be
ready for a 3 a.m. phone call now I'm
awake anyway because I got to go to the
bathroom I'm up
in fact somebody recently said to me mr.
president
you are so yesterday Justin Trudeau has
completely replaced you he's so handsome
he's so charming he's the future and I
said Justin just give it a rest I
resented that meanwhile Michelle has not
aged today the only way you can date her
in photos is by looking at me take a
look here we are in 2008 here we are a
few years later
and this one is from two weeks ago
[Applause]
so time passes in just six short months
I will be officially a lame-duck
which means Congress now will flat out
reject my authority and Republican
leaders won't take my phone calls and
this is going to take some getting used
to
it's really gonna it's a curveball I
don't know what to do with it of course
in fact for months now
congressional Republicans have been
saying there are things I cannot do in
my final year unfortunately this dinner
was not one of them but on everything
else it's another story and you know who
you are Republicans fact I think we've
got Republican senators tim scott and
cory gardner they're in the house which
reminds me security bar the doors judge
Merrick garland come on out we're going
to do this right here right now
it's like the red wedding
but it's not just Congress even some
foreign leaders they've been looking
ahead anticipating my departure last
week Prince George showed up to our
meeting in his bathrobe that was a slap
in the face
a clear breach of protocol although
while in England I did have lunch with
her Majesty the Queen took in a
performance of Shakespeare hit the links
with David Cameron just in case anybody
is still debating whether I'm black
enough
I think that settles the debate
[Applause]
I won't live it look this is a tough
transition it's hard key staff are now
starting to leave the White House even
reporters have left me Savannah Guthrie
she's left the White House press corps
to host the Today Show nor O'Donnell
left the briefing room to host CBS this
morning Jake Tapper left journalism to
join CNN
[Applause]
but the prospect of leaving the White
House is a mixed bag you might have
heard that someone jumped the White
House fence last week but I have to give
Secret Service credit they found
Michelle brought her back she's safe
she's safe back at home
something five more months baby settle
down
and yet somehow despite all this despite
the churn in my final year my approval
ratings keep going up what the last time
I was this high I was trying to decide
on my major
[Applause]
and here's the thing I I haven't really
done anything differently so it's odd
even my aides can't explain the rising
poll numbers what has changed nobody can
figure it out
[Applause]
puzzling anyway in this last year I do
have more appreciation for those who
have been with me on this amazing ride
like one of our finest public servants
Joe Biden god bless him love that guy
I love Joe Biden I really do and I want
to thank him for his friendship for his
council for always giving it to me
straight for not shooting anybody in the
face thank you Joe
also I would be remiss let's give it up
for our host Larry Wilmore also known as
one of the two black guys who's not John
Stewart you're the South African guy
right
I love I love Larry and his parents are
here who are from Evanston which is a
great channel I also would like to
acknowledge some of the award-winning
reporters that we have with us here
tonight Rachel McAdams Mark Ruffalo Liev
Schreiber thank you all for everything
that you've done I'm just joking
as you know spotlight is a film a movie
about investigative journalists with the
resources and the autonomy to chase down
the truth and hold the powerful
accountable that's fantasy film since
Star Wars I look as it may be a cheap
shot I understand the news business is
tough these days it keeps changing all
the time every year at this dinner
somebody makes a joke about BuzzFeed for
example changing the media landscape and
every year the Washington Post lasts a
little bit less hard
it's kind of silence they're especially
good for hushing impost table
GOP Chairman Reince Priebus is here as
well
glad to see that you feel that you've
earned a night off congratulations on
all your success the Republican Party
the nomination process it's all going
great keep it up
[Applause]
kendall Jenner is also here and we had a
chance to meet her backstage she seems
like a very nice young woman I'm not
exactly sure what she does but I am told
that my Twitter mentions are about to go
through the roof
Helen Mirren is here tonight
[Applause]
I don't even have a joke here I just
think Helen Mirren is awesome
[Applause]
she's awesome sitting at the same table
I see Mike Bloomberg Mike a combative
controversial New York billionaire is
leading the GOP primary and it is not
you that has to sting a little bit
although it's it's not an entirely fair
comparison between you and the Donald
after all Mike was a big-city mayor he
knows policy in-depth and he's actually
worth the amount of money that he says
he is
[Applause]
what an election season for example
we've got the bright new face of the
Democratic Party here tonight mr. Bernie
Sanders
Berni you look like a million bucks or
to put in terms you'll understand you
look like 37,000 donations of 27 dollars
each
[Applause]
a lot of folks have been surprised by
the Burnie phenomena especially is
appeal to young people but not me I get
it
just recently a young person came up to
me and said she was sick of politicians
standing in the way of her dreams as if
we were actually gonna let Malia go to
Burning Man this year was not going to
happen
Bernie might a let her go not us
I am hurt though Bernie that you've been
distancing yourself a little from me I
mean that's just not something that you
do to your comrade
[Applause]
Bernie's slogan has helped his campaign
catch fire among young people feel the
Bern feel the Bern it's a good slogan
Hillary's slogan has not had the same
effect let's let's see this
[Applause]
but I've said how much I admire
Hillary's toughness her smarts of her
policy chops her experience you've got
to admit it though Hillary trying to
appeal to young voters is a little bit
like your relative who just signed up
for Facebook dear America did you get my
poke is it appearing on your wall I'm
not sure I'm using this right love and
Hillary
it's not entirely persuasive meanwhile
on the Republican side things are a
little more now shall we say this a
little more loose just look at the
confusion over the invitations to
tonight's dinner guests were asked to
check whether they wanted steak or fish
but instead a whole bunch of you wrote
in Paul Ryan that's not an option people
steak or fish
you may not like steak or fish
that's your choice
meanwhile some candidates aren't polling
high enough to qualify for their own
joke tonight
the rules were well-established ahead of
time and then there's Ted Cruz Ted had a
tough week
he went to Indiana Hoosier country stood
on a basketball court
and called the hoop a basketball ring
[Applause]
what else is in his lexicon baseball
sticks
football hats but sure I'm the foreign
one
[Applause]
well let me conclude tonight on a more
serious note I want to thank for the
Washington press corps
I want to thank Carol for all that you
do you know the Free Press is central to
our democracy and now I'm just kidding
you know I've got to talk about Trump
we were just gonna stop there come on
although I have a little hurt that he's
not here tonight we had so much fun the
last time and it is surprising you've
got a room full of reporters celebrities
cameras and he says no is this dinner
too tacky for the Donald what could he
possibly be doing instead is he at home
eating a trump steak tweeting out
insults to Angela Merkel what's he doing
the Republican establishment is
incredulous that he's their most likely
nominee incredulous shocking
they say Donald lacks the foreign policy
experience to be present but in fairness
he has spent years meeting with leaders
from around the world miss Sweden miss
Argentina misses her by Jean
and there's one area where Donald's
experience could be invaluable and
that's closing Guantanamo because Trump
knows a thing or two about running
waterfront properties into the ground
all right that's probably enough I mean
we I've got more material no no I don't
want to spend too much time on the
Donald following your lead I want to
show some restraint because I think we
can all agree that from the start he's
gotten the appropriate amount of
coverage befitting the seriousness of
his candidacy I hope you all are proud
of yourselves
the guy wanted to give this hotel
business a boost and now we're praying
that Cleveland makes it through July
mmm-hmm as for me and Michelle we've
decided to stay in DC for a couple more
years thank you
this way our youngest daughter can
finish up high school
Michelle can stay closer to her plot of
carrots she's already making plans to
see them every day
take a look
but our decision has actually presented
a bit of a dilemma because traditionally
presidents don't stick around after
they're done
and it's something that I've been
brooding about a little bit take a look
the Obamas are staying in DC for two
years after the president leaves office
he's about to go from commander in chief
to couch commander do you Chuck Todd
what am I gonna do in DC for two years
got a real dilemma mr. president I can't
go every day can i I wish you like
better these are these Joe they're the
same capture different moves joy needs
to focus here come the nerd or an
aviator time thinks of it I'm sorry
what's that I said mr. president yeah
I'd be practical look you can drive
again you're gonna need a license set
you love sports why don't you volunteer
to work one of the teams around here is
this watch them Wizards I understand
you're looking for some coaching help
let's just say I coach my daughter's
team a few times
hello hello
[Music]
forty-four finally so I'm gonna be in DC
for a while and I thought I'd take up
driving what's the name Barack Hussein
Obama Thanks well since you don't have a
driver's license you're gonna need a
birth certificate really really it's
real is that it's real Michelle left
your phone huh she's got snapchat Obama
care is great and it's really working
sign up now breaking news Michelle Obama
in hot water after posting this video
earlier today Obama care is great
no no you get a lot of use of money
enough enough why don't you just talk to
somebody who's been through this
I gotta go to SoulCycle she's right I
know who I need to talk to her hey it's
Brock listen can we get together
now that is a great yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
so get any bison so now you want my
advice
first stop sending me all these LinkedIn
and requests in second here's the beauty
of this whole thing you've got all the
time in the world to figure this out you
can just be you for a while if you know
how to do that again so I can just be me
and I can wear my mom jeans in peace I
hate these tight jeans good yesterday
I had a beer at 11:30 in the morning and
you know McDonald's now for breakfast
all day long you know Michelle's gonna
be in spin class so she'll never know
right let it go and it won't be long
you'll be able to walk right out of the
Oval Office same zippity-doo-dah zippedy
Dan you got planes on the work on your
tan and you know what it finally got the
grand bargain on a sweet Chevy Tahoe
[Music]
look here
as 347th round of golf for the year and
it's totally great
and Gloria not a problem for anything I
can't think of a reason to care wolf and
believe me I've tried
I am still waiting for all of you to
respond to my invitation to connect to
LinkedIn but I know you have jobs to do
which is what really brings us here
tonight I know that there are times that
we've had differences and that's
inherent in our institutional roles it's
true of every president and his press
corps but we've always shared the same
goal to root our public discourse in the
truth to open the doors of this
democracy to do whatever we can to make
our country and our world more free and
more just and I've always appreciated
the role that you have all played as
equal partners in reaching these goals
our Free Press is why we once again
recognized the real journalists who
uncover the horrifying scandal and
brought some measure of justice for
thousands of victims throughout the
world they are here with us tonight
Sacha Pfeiffer Mike Resendez Walter
Robinson Matt Carroll and bet Bradley
jr. please give them a big round of
applause
a pre-press is why once again that we
honor Jason rezaian as Carroll noted
last time this year we spoken Jason's
courage has he endured the isolation of
an Iranian prison this year we see that
courage in the flesh and it's a living
testament to the very idea of a free
press and a reminder of the rising level
of danger and political intimidation and
physical threats faced by reporters
overseas and I can make this commitment
that as long as I hold this office my
administration will continue to fight
for the release of American journalists
held against their will and we will not
stop until we may see the same freedom
as Jason had
at home and abroad
journalists like all of you engage in
the dogged pursuit of informing citizens
and holding leaders accountable and
making our government of the people
possible and it's an enormous
responsibility and I realize it's an
enormous challenge at a time when the
economics of the business sometimes
incentivize speed over depth and when
controversy and conflict or what most
immediately attract readers and viewers
the good news is there's so many of you
that are pushing against those trends
and as a citizen of this great democracy
I am grateful for them for this is also
a time around the world when some of the
fundamental ideals of liberal
democracies are under attack
and when notions of objectivity and of a
free press and of facts and of evidence
are trying to be undermined or in some
cases ignored entirely and in such a
climate it's not enough just to give
people a megaphone and that's why your
power and your a responsibility to dig
and the question and the counter
distortions and untruths is more
important than ever taking a stand on
behalf of what is true does not require
you shedding your objectivity in fact it
is the essence of good journalism it
affirms the idea that the only way we
can build consensus the only way that we
can move forward as a country the only
way we can help the world mend itself is
by agreeing on a baseline of facts when
it comes to the challenges that confront
us all so this night is a testament to
all of you who've devoted your lives to
that idea who push to shine a light on
the truth every single day so I want to
close my final White House
Correspondents Dinner by just saying
thank you I'm very proud of what you've
done
has been an honor and a privilege to
work side-by-side with here to
strengthen our democracy and with that I
just have two more words to say Obama
[Applause]
[Music]